Critical Render Path
How things works under the hood.
Website be on a server.
Request the HTML file.
Sees the CSS file in the HTML-file.
Look at both HTML and CSS files.
Sees it needs an font-file.
You will not able to render until you recives CSS-file.
Minify CSS file.
Minify removes the whitespace.

Exercise File:Code-Along images.

Flex-box
Adding images.
Massive images.
Adding an link.
Flex-box helps stretching the images.
display:flex;
flex-wrap:wrap;
justify-content:center;
text-align:center;
You build websites with flex-box.

Optional Exercise: Flexbox Froggy

justify-content:Defines how the browser distributes space between and around content items along the main-axis.

align-items: property defines the default behavior for how items are laid out along the cross axis (perpendicular to the main axis).

flex-direction: Arranges the column and rows and reverse.

order: Arranges the order of the elements.

align-self:property overrides a grid or flex item's align-items value. In Grid, it aligns the item inside the grid area. Or the center elements.

flex-wrap: property sets whether flex items are forced onto one line or can wrap onto multiple lines. 

flex-flow: combination of flew-wrap and flex-direction.

align-content: property sets the distribution of space between and around content items along a flexbox's cross-axis or a grid's block axis.

CSS 3
Constantly evolves added new properties and new designs.
Some browsers will work with different properties.
transistion: all 1;
transistion: scale(1.1);
animation:
Checkup your browser to check the properties.
If a browser dosen't support some property you must add an sort of prefix.
caniuse.com checkup browsers.

Optional exercise:
transisition-property: Which property should be effected.
transistion-duration: How long will the transistion be in effect.
scale: Scale up the object.
rotate: Rotates the object.
translate: Moves the object up and down.
skew: Makes the object act like rubber.
transform-origin: combine aboves.

Responsive UI
How it looks on a phone or ipad.
No matter where the screen is it looks good.
