Introduction To NPM
Share code to build on.
Used collectively inteligence to build upon.
Search for packages.
NPM registery.
Find list files.
You got expertices from others.
Not all packages is good code.
Negatively your project gets to big.

Three types of packages.
1.Packages you can use on the browser.
2.Gives you new command on the command line.
3.You can use on the backend.

Node Package Manager.

Why it is really important.
See it in every single projects.

Three must do things.
1. HTML + CSS + Javascript
2. Github Repo + Git
3. Package.json file
This part focuses on.

Setting Up NPM and package.json
Go to the website and download it.
Node allows us to run js files without browser.
Node js was created to use the V8 engine.
npm init creates a package json file.
json is an file format it looks like an javascript object.

Update: Latest Node.js and NPM
Download with the latest on the website.

Installing And Using Packages
Grab React and have it part of the packages.
Loaddash and Liveserver.
Install two ways globally and locally.
Package only in one specific folder is locally.
Globally using it anywhere in the computer.
Live-server creates an fake server for you.
npm install loadash install locally.
You have to use the require syntax sometimes.
Install browserify to make your files adapt to your browser.
Create an bundle file with browserify.
Change your html to bundle.js.
You must think if you really needs the package and you must think of dependencies.
You can easily share packages with others developers.
dev-dependecies are just for testing.
You can add commands to your package.json files.

Why Update Packages?
Libraries are always evolving.
Security risks github helps with security issues.
semver package versions.

Create A Portfolio
We are going to build an portfolio website to show the employer.
npm install and npm start.
Change in template.html
Change picturs and templates.
Hatch free create your own logo for free.
scss just like css but gives us more options.
In scss you can have variables.


