Section Overview

Pillars.
We are going to talk about the pillars.
These pillars is going to finalize our learning.
These pillars is going to connect this into one.



Everything Is A Game
When we frame our mindset.
This growth of a mindset.
What we wanna have a growth mindset.
Everything you learn is trainable.
With some effort and strategy you can learn.
But when have a growth mindset we can grow.
Grow vs Fixed mindset.
Approach a challenge how might i learn and grow from this challenge.
When we view this as a game we grows.
Control over life.
Locus means what's control.
Blame factors outside the course.
They blame everything outside.
You are better to prepared to become a better learner.
We just learn how to optimize a system.



http://mindsetscholarsnetwork.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/What-We-Know-About-Growth-Mindset.pdf

https://fs.blog/2015/03/carol-dweck-mindset/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locus_of_control

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3268356/




Feyman Technique
If you really want to understand a topic is to explain it.
You get's asked why everytime.
It's all about to brining down a concept to a basic level.
When you go to work.
We are trying to use big words.
When we speak with simple terms.




Exercise: Feyman Technique

Using the Feynman Technique, let's actually solidify what we are learning in the course. If you have been following along and taking notes on your own or in our worksheets, you should have something now to be able to teach or show others your work.

Moving forward, on top of taking notes, I want you to start thinking of these notes as "shareable" notes that you are going to share at the end of the course. This means you can use something like Google Docs to share with the ZTM community, you can use something like Medium to share what you learned in a blog post, or you can share your filled in worksheet online.

The idea is to take notes in the course in a way that at the end of it all, you can teach what you have learned to your friends, family, or even people on the internet. It sounds tedious, but as you will find out, this works to help ideas stick. We will revisit this exercise at the end of the course and see if these notes are shareable!




Trunk Based Knowledge
We must first start from the leaves to the root.
You wanna play the guitar, build a house.
We wanna start at the trunk.
We need to first start with the fundamentals.
Why do we use computers.
With trunk based learning we wanna learn the fundamentals.
We wanna learn the why's.
We wanna understand the trunk.



Exercise: Trunk Based Knowledge

Do get further information on what it means to develop Trunk Based Knowledge, have a read through this article before moving on to the next video.


https://medium.com/accelerated-intelligence/be-prepared-to-lose-your-job-in-the-future-if-you-dont-learn-this-one-skill-now-8a87ade2a268



Efficiency Trumps Grit
I never to put in time.
To be good to something you don't have to be the hardest worker.
There's a lot of people that are trying to push.
Being busy is good thing.
Being smart with your time.
Effeciency work harder as someone else.
Being effciency.
We have limited time in our life.
Use the right strategies.
If you use the right strategies.



Section Review
There we have the four pillars.
We haven't gotten into the techniques.
We have control over our lives.
This can determined by our selfes.

