DevOps and Docker Talk Intro
This is more question and answers.
Some questions are getting turned to really good questions.



Alpine Base Images. Are they Really More Secure?
Great space to search for vulnerabilities in the images.

With container scanning with known vulnerabilities.
Figuring about the problems.

There are some scanners that are out there.

These scanners have each pros and cons.

Depend on the operating system.
Like Linux distirbutions.
Open SSL libraries.
Base image matters for you to completly scan.
Alpine is very small compared to other Linux distributions.

Alpine has risen to popularity.
Alpine is small and have less vulnerbilities.
Stick with you know.
Alpine is really different.
You have to change much things with Alpine.
Do we need the extra work for implementing Alpine.
It is really impossible to scan for vulnerabilities.
Sneaky problems with Alpine.




Dealing With Non-root Users In Containers and File Permissions

Permissions in docker can be frustating.
Like Bind-mount.
Use go-su.
Largely what happens with permission.
Let's say you have a node app.
chmod is not supported but you can copy in chown.




Apache Web Server Design. Many Sites In One Container, or Many Containers?

Apache have the ability can run many websites that are unrelated.

If you have 1000 websites you can run Apache.
Scale the container independtly.

If one had one the same container you would restart 
everything if only one website was just to be updated.



Docker Network Ip Subnet Conflicts with Outside Networks
There come some Docker Networks out of the box.
You can't have the same subnets.
You can't have a subnet clashing.
Try to use a ping or a traceroute.
Using AWS.



Raspberry Pi Development in Docker
IOT projects on Docker.
You run the ARM.
In ARM 64 containers.
You can build them locally.
docker qemu is built in to docker with Desktop Edition.



Window 10 Containers Get Process Isolation
Microsoft come up with Windows Containers.
When you start Containers.
You have to spin up containers.
When you turn a couple of things.


Should You Move Postgres to Containers
You are going to ask yourself if you are containerizing for it's cool.
The best option run on Cloud like RDS.
Prize should not be on of them.
Managing yourself.
It will not make any difference in performance.
It is none layer of simulation.
HPE performance.
One database as an VM.
Or having a few VM.




Using Supervisor To Run Multiple Apps In A Container
Never one more App in one container.
You need to start with something else.
Combine php and nginx in same container.
It have worked well.
It is used in heavy scenarios.
Using supervisor D to do that.





Should You Use Docker Compose or Swarm For A Single Server?
Always use Swarm in a production machine.
You can't do rollup updates




Docker Enviroment Configs, Variables, and Entrypoints
12 Factor App.
From a company that learned how to do with a distributed app.
Config storing. 
You don't want to have hard-code setting.
Different Passwords.
Some flags to set where yo are.
Strict separation.
You are doing everything through enviroment variables.
Settings it needs.
Every operating system support it.
Prefer default to the production file.
You want to create consist ones.
You can overwrite it in the shell.
Be used on the container start-up.
Familiar with swarm we can overwrite entire files.
Providing an entry-point script.
You can see this stuff in official images.
A script that the variables and makes it into enviroment variables.
A good stuff is not to put secrets into the enviroment variables.




Java and JBoss in Containers. One war File Per Container?
Do what you are comfortable with.
Get that containerizing it.
If you update one maybe you must also bring down the others to.
In general we are splitting up more and more.
We had several Tomcat servers.
It was lot overhead in the past.




TLS in Dev and Prod with Docker
Locally you need to create your own certs.
Bind mount into the certificates.



Multiple Docker Images From One Git Repo
Is there a way to run from a single git repo.
You basically can clone it down.
With Dockerfiles the content you are in.
Building from the directory that you want.



Docker + ARM, Using Raspberry Pi or AWS A1 Instances with Docker
Smart home hackers we touch ARM.
ARM processors is in many devices.
Every piece of hardware.
Gaining advantage in.
Opens up hardware.
Work doing the develop on hardware and testing.
Having dedicated hardware.
Supported for building containers.
We can start talking at the IoT Constances.
Distributed applications.
There are other worlds out there.
On every stages.
Opens up to new ways to doing things.
ARM focused on efficiency.
Largely due to the smartphones.
ARM doesn't make processors.
Custom hardware.
Making their own hardware.
The first babysteps.
Across the board.
Let me test on a different architecture.
Really intresting discussion.
Play locally and test locally.
Use cases of server side.
We want to go away from the server.
It get's a little bit harder.
For every x86 chipz how many arms is running.



Docker and Swarm RBAC Options
I there any way to limit something.
Can i limit people to certain stacks.
You get's that with Docker Enterprise
Authorization plugins to create own models.



ENTRYPOINT vs CMD, what's the difference in Dockerfiles
I need to import a database schema.
The Entrypoint and CMD
CMD.
Entrypoint and CMD are two part when docker starts.
Run a script to pass an execution.
If i click on any of the releases.
The Entrypoint doesn't exist running it online.



How to Use External Storage in Docker
Containers dosen't change any of the feature storage.
Containers dosen't change that.



Can I Turn a VM into a Container?
Docker provide some tools.
You can't conterize the whole VM.
It is not hard to containersize the app.
Sell things with the Docker Enterprise
Look at the operating system and suck it dosen't exist.



Startup Order With Multi-Container Apps
Recover for some fashion.
Look up 12 factor app.
Got a bunch of servers to orchstreate everything.
They need to have a retry.
Some has a buffer protocol.
Let the apps crash and retry them.

