Section Overview
The hard part is over.
Coding is just the heart of the interview.
Non-Technical Questions.
You have to be good to work with others.
Questions tell me about yourself.
What to do after the interview.


During The Interview
Mindset thinking that is your only chance.
It's not live or die.
Treat it like an learning experince.
Go and learn.
You wanna see how good you are.

Another day at the office.
Sometimes it can just be coders.
It's not all about you and it's all about them.
You should be exited.
This is the trick you are going to feel like you are going to meet a best friend.

Can you do the job?
Can I work with you?
Are you going to improve?

You have the these 4 hero qualities!

1.Technical
2.Success
3.Leadership
4.Challenge


Exercise: Hero Stories
Take 30 minutes of your time to write down 2~3 hero stories with the points mentioned from the previous video. Use these hero stories as your base when interviewing at any company. Good luck!

If you want feedback, or you want to see other examples from other students, reach out in our private Discord chat community in the #job-hunting channel! (Link can be found in Lecture 3 on your Udemy course dashboard)!

Technical
I found that i had to use React-Router-Dom to make my App functioning

Success
Was when i was succesful to implementing my RobotFriends App with React-Router

Leadership
I searched and i worked alone to get the app functioning with the help of google no one told me about that.

Challenge
When is trying to implement my mini-blocket site i had no clue about how the style was going to be so tried to fix that.

Tell Me About Yourself
If get to long the interviewer is going to be bored.
You wanna talk about your triggers of your success.
Get's asked about your success.
Make sure the heroes is relevant to the job.
They wonder why you are here?

I got really intrested in coding about years ago when i wanted to know how the black-box works.

I started consuming the infos.


-You triggers of success
-Mention things you want to get asked
-Skills should be relevant to job

Exercise: Your Pitch

Spend the next 30 minutes writing your own 1 minute "pitch" for when you get asked "Tell Me About Yourself" types of questions. Make sure you cover the points mentioned in the previous video. Have fun :)

If you want feedback, or you want to see other examples from other students, reach out in our private Discord chat community in the #job-hunting channel (Link can be found in Lecture 3 on your Udemy course dashboard)!

I got intrested in coding years ago when a friend to another friend told about amazing stuff you can make with coding.

And i got intrested in how things works in the web-pages how the Android Apps is build and what you can to with Scripting.

Nowadays i am more intrested in how programming languages works if they have a interpreter or a compiler.


Why Us?

Make the interviewer feel special.
They don't want to hire anyone that is just going to be there a year.
Interviewing is all by standing out.
I have been researching your company and i have done some projects in the past.

Why did you leave your job?
No negativity!
Tell them that you wanna grow!
Tell them you wanna work with the best!.

Tell Me About A Problem You Have Solved

Starts of the situation.
What did you do to solve the situation.
The result is what happens after you took the action.

-Have this prepared
-Have metrics and numbers
-Scaling, performance, security

Talk about a big project instead of a todo-list.
All companies has the big problems.
If you improved caching in your app the recruiter is going to ask more about that.

Don't blame you coworkers.
Solve problems and go on.

You are going to have variations of the problem.
You worked with programming languages.
Bring back of what the company is looking for.


Exercise: Past Projects

Spend the next 30 minutes writing your own answer to when you get asked "Tell Me About A Problem You Have Solved" type of questions. Think of the 1~2 big projects you have worked on such as the SmartBrain image recognition app in my other courses.  Make sure you cover the points mentioned in the previous video. Have fun :)

If you want feedback, or you want to see other examples from other students, reach out in our private Discord chat community in the #job-hunting channel (Link can be found in Lecture 3 on your Udemy course dashboard)!

I wanted to make a small commerce website where i used React as the Front-End and i used Docker to deploy it with MySQL and Redis.

The problem is that i'didn't know how to design the website?

What Is Your Biggest Weakness
These the questions to give some silly questions.
Some people can see through them.
People can really see through what you says.
How can you twist this around.
Be honest a real weakness and how to overcome it.
Sometimes i get straight into coding and without any thoughts and maybe 
to write some pseudo codes.

Exercise: What Is Your Biggest Weakness

Spend the next 30 minutes writing your own weakness. Make sure you cover the points mentioned in the previous video. Have fun :)

If you want feedback, or you want to see other examples from other students, reach out in our private Discord chat community in the #job-hunting channel (Link can be found in Lecture 3 on your Udemy course dashboard)!

Sometimes i get stuck with a problem and i can sit with hours and look at the same thing. Maybe i should come up with others solutions and try to get a rest and come back with different ways to look at a problem.

Any Questions For Us?
Do you have any questions for the company.
How you thought!
-Focus on them, not company (YOU)
-Mention something they mentioned

And ideally mention what they have mention during the interview.
What is the good questions to ask.
-Where do you see the company going through the next years!
-Ask them why they are there?
-What they wish when they started the job at the company.

Resources: Questions To Ask A Company

Here is a great resource with a list of questions that may be good to ask a company!

https://github.com/viraptor/reverse-interview

Secret Weapon
Never give up at first!
You are competing against others canditates.
Problems noticed a lot in programmers.
Common for managers and CEO.

-Simplicity over complexity

-Premature optimization is the root of all evil
(Based on your time is it worth it!)

-Overall goal, not myopic
(You just narrowly focusing on a small problem)

-No complaining about client/code/etc
(Your are comfortable to working with coworkers and don't want to complain)

-No ego 
(We might feel hurt by other comments. 
Like feedback from others developers.)


After The Interview
Ask for feedback performance.
Ask for a timeline.

-Don't overuse "I"
-Talk about the interviewer.
-Express how you are the ideal candidate
-Don't brag

However there is a shortage of good talented ego less developers with ambition to learn.

A developer wanted it more than any other.

Thank the interviewer!

Section Summary
This not the most intresting pattern.
Once you become good at them.
You wanna have good mindset.
Don't make them a boring meeting!.
Be a human don't be a Robot.
www.glassdoor.ca and you can check the interview questions.
On top of working on the interview.
Priortize a task.
One question if i hire you can you make things easily.

