Section Intro


In the Summer of 2019 I hosted an online event where Docker employees and Captains showed off their favorite features of the new 19.03 release. I've broken that event into shorter topic-focused videos, including Q&A, and added them here as Lectures.

I'm very excited about the 19.03 release and think it's the biggest Docker update in years. I hope you enjoy!




Buildkit and the new Docker buildx CLI
Extended support for ARM architechture.
Extends the docker build command.
So it carry it out on multi-nodes.
Cache mechanism.
Basically going out through.
go build releaseparty.go
docker build -t #In a usually way.
Helps build the images for multi-platform.

docker buildx.

ls ~/.docker/

docker buildx create --driver  docker-container --name dckbuilder dckbuilder

Runs itseld as backend docker container
docker buildx use dckbuilder

Build across different architectures.




Docker Context and SSH Connections
docker context
docker context ls
Kubernetes ctl
docker ps

I want to connect to another daemon.
kubectl config get-contexts -o name
DOCKER_HOST="Ip-address"

You can copy context to another context.
Import kubernetes from another location.

docker context create --docker "host=tcp://play-with-docker.com"
 pwd

docker context use pwd.




Docker App and Image Packaging of Compose YAML
curl -L http//github.docker
You get two binaries.

docker context ls

We were good to use docker-compose files and deploy it on git.
It must better way to share applications.
docker app install --help

docker app install mikeir87/swarm-viz.dockerapp --target-context=pwd

You can change the ports with app command.
You parametrize except the image.

docker app.

You have to go into the config file and enable the expremental mode.




Rootless Mode in Docker Engine

Isolate the containers into a specific space.
Runs some containers without as a root.

curl -sSL https://get.docker.com/rootless | sh
export DOCKER_HOST=unix://run/user/1000/docker.sock

If you don't belong to the docker group you must do sudo docker.
Can't share the docker socket.

Scoped to your user account.
Doing balancing between.
Deamon is another thing.





Docker Desktop Enterprise
You can change your memory.
You might to know the configuration.
Application designer getting started with compose.
Help people bootstrap docker.
Design templates.




Docker Desktop Enterprise Clusters
docker
create a cluster
backup a cluster
High-level concept of values.
Fill out values.
Basic configuration to talk to AWS.
We can do AWS instances and load balancers
docker cluster create --file DnDShow.yml --name bret
