What We Are Building
We are add to our portfolio to impress our future employer.
Everything we learned to this point.
That has a front-end using react, image-recognition API,node and express,own,server,databases also.
We are going to create to sign-in.
When we are push in a image and detect the face for it.

Building Our Components
Imaging what we are trying to build.
We wanna have a logo, sum of face detections,sign-in and sign-out.
URL input to detect an image.
We want it to responsive.
There is an input-form component.
Navigation component.
Logo Component.
ImageLinkForm component.
FaceRecognition component.
Begining with navigation component.
Style-attribut.
We are going to need some CSS going to install tachiyons.
Adding some things.
Adding an nice background.
Adding an linear-gradient.
Doing the logo first.
Making Babel as default.
Class name as tachyons.
React-tilt allow some hover and tilt over.
Checking the documentation and copy.
Using things people has built.
Adding some back-ground to the logo.
You can add some options to tilt.
Grab an free logo.
Lower the brain logo.
Nice to use the different components to build the website.
What we need in ImagelinkForm: div-tag,p-tag,div-tag, input of type text,button that will say detect.
Inline togheter flex.
Wrap it up and make it smaller.
Create an form class.
CSS3 pattern-gallery.
Display flex so everything is on the frontline.
Add some functionality.
Rank component.
Select all the features.
Avoiding to see whats is best style it is individually.
Particles.js lets us have an background that is interactiv.
CSS-syntax fix.
z-index: What layer it should be on.

Image Recognition API
Creating functionality by creating an state.
Define an constructor.
Some functionality to detect some images.
Creates some states.
onInputOnChange check events.
Getting an proxy event.
Clicking on detect to detect things.
How to display an image and detect an face.
Using an API called clarify.
Send url with API-key oh thats is Andrei for example.
Machine Learning to train their models.
Using their face-detection.
Common js require.
Very similar API-keys.
Facerecognition to just to display an image.
Predict-method.
They have an tons of models.
Tell which model we wanna use.
src/index.js all their models we can use.
Using different models to predict whats it is in it.
Set an image and get analysis.

Face Detection Box
We are getting bounding boxes.
They have an bounding box class.
New state object in bounding box.
Calcface location based on the inputs.
Create id called inputimage to grab it.
Using the procentages times height-image and times width-image
to calculate the borders - the total procentage.
Add some CCS to verify that everything works.
Adding the properties to the style-tag with the box-properties.

Sign in Form And Routing
Create an registration form.
Grab some code of sign-in forms.
Need an bit of state.
Problem common in apps.
Create an route state.
onRouteChange sign-in to change the pages.
Nothing happens when you click on sign-out.
Tricky to add the register-component.
Combining with ternary-expressions.
Change an boolean variable depending if the person is signed in or not.

