Section Overview
You have done the Interview.
As matter of a fact.
It is a easy way to handle neogations.
Overall be more satisfied with the Job.
Congratulations handling an offer.
You are getting not just one offer but multiple offers.


Handling Rejection
Even the greatest engineers get's rejected.
No one dosen't care about rejections.
Get's up after a rejection.
Wasen't the right fit?
It is an statistic game.
No matter how many times you get's rejected.
Get's some information about the rejection.
Ask them when you can apply?


Negotiation 101
I am no expert in Negotiation.
Tell what it has worked for me.
The common theme.

-Don't end the conversation.
Tell where you want the conversation to start.

-Give reason for everything.
Well thank you for the offer.
I like to discuss this with someone.

-Always negotiate
It is very tricky.
Being able to negotiate is like an present.
Larger company has more room for negotiating.

-Be postive
Explore the possiblities.

-Have stakes
If there was no risk.
Alternatives what stakes is.


Handling An Offer
What you should do next.
But is there a better way.

-Don't end the conversation
Letting them know that you are being interviewed by other companies.

-Be positive

-Ask for time (Make the right decision)

-Let other companies know (That other's companies want's you!).

TO DO:
-Find exact salary you want (Check for the industrial paymeny).
-What value do you provide? (What would improve in the company).
-Go higher (Meet somewhere in the middle).


Handling Multiple Offers
If you getting multiple offers.
The more choices you have.
Someone finds your skills valuable.
You must decide which companies you want!.

1. Is there an offer that you feel you are under qualified for?
Take a harder work!

2. Long term growth potential
Which allows you to grow!
Are the company growing!

3. Will you respect people around you?
If you are an engineer and people are smarter than you.
You can grow!


4. Salary and benefits?
The idea of waiting for the benefits!


5. Is your decision based on desperation?
Getting remind yourself.
Most likely you want to move on to another company.

Never burn down bridges.


Getting A Raise
Talking about another fun topic.
If someone is hiring you.
The first step is to be a good employee.
You are teaching yourself.
The better you are as an employee.
Plan how long you want to stay on the company.

1. Ask for a raise
My company doesn't do any raises.
You get a raise if you provide more value.


2. Show. Don't tell
You want to make an presentation to your boss.
That you are driving the metrics for having a raise.

Found a middle ground.
It is expensive to hire new engineers.
Getting a raise every 6 month.


Exercise: Negotiation Master

You can find out the average developer salary by also using a tool like StackOverflow Developer Salary tool.



Watch a great example of how someone should speak with their superior when asking for a raise. One of the best videos demonstrating some of the topics covered in the previous video: https://youtu.be/XY5SeCl_8NE

Share your negotiation success story with other students in our community! Reach out in our private Discord chat community in the #job-hunting channel (Link can be found in Lecture 3 on your Udemy course dashboard)!

Section Summary
Congratulations somebody finds your skills valuable.
They are just focused to getting a job.
Be honest you must be able to handle a situation.
How to handle rejections.
How to get an raise.
It's theme be a nice person.



https://www.payscale.com
https://www.salary.com
https://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm