Section Overview
Data Structure is collection of values.
A person know how Data Structures work can write great programs.
Data Structures + Algorithms = Programs.
If you know these you can tackle different types of problems.
If you know the fundamentals they can throw into any problems.

What Is A Data Structure?
A data structure is a collections of values.
Each one is different.
Data Structure back-pack, drawers, fridge, packing box.
Each one of these containers are good for different things.
Each one of the containers is good for each own thing.
We can put things into data structures.
There are tons of data-structures.
Looks overwhelming.
You only have 5 types data-structures to go over.
So in our programming worlds we can push booleans,numbers.
Allows us to store information.
We take the chaos and make order of things.
We package the food.
The more experience you have to talk about data-structures.
Trade-off.
1.How to Build One.
2.How to Use it.

How Computers Store Data
Keep track of things like variables and is stored in RAM.
We also have Storage were we store Music and is permenanent.
In RAM you lose the memory.
Persistent Storage is slow.
CPU is does the actual work inside our computer.
It can access information faster in the RAM.
var a = 1. We could imagine if we had more like google chrome.
When we run something in Chrome we have it in RAM.
Think RAM as a massive storage.
It is a big shelf.
It allows us to run programs.
Each of these numbers is a bit.
1 or 0.
Each shelves has one byte of storage.
Memory controller is writing and reading the memory.
The CPU asks to the memory controller after som shelves.
RAM we can access memory.
Can access it right away.
Access memory nearby.
Computers are tuned to reading the memary as fast possible.
CPU has an cache with the most recent cache.
LRU-cache for example.
Why is that important for data structures?
Why 32-bits.
These bit are stored in the memory.
Doing this we can think how much informations.

There is something called integer overflow.

Math.pow() the first is the base.
As the number becomes to large we can only store some amount of information.
Each data-type has a number associate to it.

Resources:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fpnE6UAfbtU
http://statmath.wu.ac.at/courses/data-analysis/itdtHTML/node55.html

Data Structures In Different Languages
Luckliy for you the list is not overwhelming.
As long you learn these data structures you are going to be ahead.
Each language has data-structurers to organize the information.
Comes with datastructures built-in.
If JavaScript doesn't have a stack we can build in.

Resources:

https://coggle.it/diagram/W5E5tqYlrXvFJPsq/t/master-the-interview-click-here-for-course-link/c25f98c73a03f5b1107cd0e2f4bce29c9d78e31655e55cb0b785d56f0036c9d1

Operations On Data Structures
Data structuers is just some way to organize data.
Each data structure has it's trade-off.
Insertion add a new data-item.
Deletion remove a item from the list.
Traversal going through the data-structure.
Searching for an element.
Sorting sorts the element.
Acess the item.
Half of them is variations of trees.
Build the foundations on which data-structure you should use.

